Adds the "What is a package registry?" blog post (#4134)
SwiftPackageIndex/SwiftPackageIndex-Server: Resources/Blog/Posts/what-is-a-package-registry.md

When we recently [announced that Swift Package Index was joining Apple](https://swiftpackageindex.com/blog/swift-package-index-joins-apple), you may have noticed one very significant line in that announcement post:

> Together, we’re building a comprehensive package registry to serve the Swift community’s evolving needs.

As we move towards that goal, we thought it would be worth revisiting what a package registry is and how you can use one today.

### What is a package registry?

> There are three main parts of the Swift package tooling ecosystem. SwiftPM resolves your dependencies ready for the Swift compiler to build. A package index (like [Swift Package Index](https://swiftpackageindex.com/)) helps you discover packages and learn about what they do. A package registry *hosts and serves* the packages themselves. It’s the infrastructure that, when asked for version 1.0.2 of a specific package, serves back a verified, immutable archive of source code.

Reviewer: I find `SwiftPM resolves your dependencies ready for the Swift compiler to build.` a bit hard to read. 

Maybe something like `SwiftPM resolves your dependencies so the Swift compiler can build them.`

Author: Thanks. I went with:

> SwiftPM resolves your dependencies, fetching their source code so the compiler can build them.

> There are three main parts of the Swift package tooling ecosystem. SwiftPM resolves your dependencies ready for the Swift compiler to build. A package index (like [Swift Package Index](https://swiftpackageindex.com/)) helps you discover packages and learn about what they do. A package registry *hosts and serves* the packages themselves. It’s the infrastructure that, when asked for version 1.0.2 of a specific package, serves back a verified, immutable archive of source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three main parts of the Swift package tooling ecosystem. SwiftPM resolves your dependencies ready for the Swift compiler to build. A package index (like [Swift Package Index](https://swiftpackageindex.com/)) helps you discover packages and learn what they do. A package registry *hosts and serves* the packages themselves. It’s the infrastructure that, when asked for version 1.0.2 of a specific package, serves back a verified, immutable archive of source code.
```

Author: Fixed, thanks.

> There are three main parts of the Swift package tooling ecosystem. SwiftPM resolves your dependencies ready for the Swift compiler to build. A package index (like [Swift Package Index](https://swiftpackageindex.com/)) helps you discover packages and learn about what they do. A package registry *hosts and serves* the packages themselves. It’s the infrastructure that, when asked for version 1.0.2 of a specific package, serves back a verified, immutable archive of source code.

Reviewer 2: "SwiftPM resolves your dependencies ready for the Swift compiler to build." reads slightly oddly to me - like it's missing a word. What would you think of:

```suggestion
There are three main parts of the Swift package tooling ecosystem. SwiftPM resolves your dependencies  for the Swift compiler to build your code. A package index (like [Swift Package Index](https://swiftpackageindex.com/)) helps you discover packages and learn about what they do. A package registry *hosts and serves* the packages themselves. It’s the infrastructure that, when asked for version 1.0.2 of a specific package, serves back a verified, immutable archive of source code.
```

Most language ecosystems have a registry. JavaScript has [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/), Rust has [crates.io](https://crates.io/), Ruby has [RubyGems](https://rubygems.org/), and Python has [PyPI](https://pypi.org/).

### Depending on a git-based package

> Like most package managers, SwiftPM supports using git-based packages and registry-based packages. You will probably be familiar with how a git-based dependency looks in a `Package.swift` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like most package managers, SwiftPM supports using Git-based packages and registry-based packages. You will probably be familiar with how that appears in a `Package.swift` file:
```

(capitalizing "Git" since you're not talking about the explicit command, and reducing the replication in the next sentence)

Author: Thanks, fixed!

```swift
dependencies: [
    .package(url: "https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-testing.git", from: "6.3.2")
]
```

> During package resolution, SwiftPM clones git-based dependencies from their source repository and checks out a matching tag. It then supplies the source to the compiler, ready to build your app. This is simple and requires no extra infrastructure, but there are inherent disadvantages. Git checkouts can be slow and transfer more data than is needed, and git tags are mutable. SwiftPM uses [Trust on First Use](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trust_on_first_use) (TOFU) checks that help mitigate problems stemming from mutable tags, but they only catch mutations after first package resolution.

Reviewer: May be explicit about how SPM finds and checks out the tag?

Author: There's quite a bit that this could cover. Were you interested in hitting any specific points?

> During package resolution, SwiftPM clones git-based dependencies from their source repository and checks out a matching tag. It then supplies the source to the compiler, ready to build your app. This is simple and requires no extra infrastructure, but there are inherent disadvantages. Git checkouts can be slow and transfer more data than is needed, and git tags are mutable. SwiftPM uses [Trust on First Use](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trust_on_first_use) (TOFU) checks that help mitigate problems stemming from mutable tags, but they only catch mutations after first package resolution.

Reviewer: > Git checkouts can be slow and transfer more data than is needed, and git tags are mutable.

Two separate thoughts in this sentence. Something like this: 

Git checkouts can be slow and transfer more data than is needed. Another problem is git tags are mutable: an attacker could make the most recent version point to a commit with their malicious code. SwiftPM uses [Trust on First Use]...

Author: Thanks. I went with this rewrite:

> Git checkouts can be slow and transfer more data than is needed. Git tags are also mutable, and while SwiftPM uses [Trust on First Use](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trust_on_first_use) (TOFU) checks that help mitigate that problem, TOFU only catches mutations that happen after first package resolution.

> During package resolution, SwiftPM clones git-based dependencies from their source repository and checks out a matching tag. It then supplies the source to the compiler, ready to build your app. This is simple and requires no extra infrastructure, but there are inherent disadvantages. Git checkouts can be slow and transfer more data than is needed, and git tags are mutable. SwiftPM uses [Trust on First Use](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trust_on_first_use) (TOFU) checks that help mitigate problems stemming from mutable tags, but they only catch mutations after first package resolution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During package resolution, SwiftPM clones Git-based dependencies from their source repository and checks out a matching tag. It then supplies the source to the compiler, ready to build your app. This is simple and requires no extra infrastructure, but there are inherent disadvantages. Git checkouts can be slow and transfer more data than is needed, and Git tags are mutable. SwiftPM uses [Trust on First Use](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trust_on_first_use) (TOFU) checks that help mitigate problems stemming from mutable tags, but they only catch mutations after first package resolution.
```

Author: Thanks, fixed!

### Depending on a registry-based package

Here’s the same dependency import from a registry:

```swift
dependencies: [
    .package(id: "swiftlang.swift-testing", from: "6.3.2")
]
```

> Package registries address the main downsides of git-based dependencies. Package versions are immutable once published, a registry delivers source code in an archive without any git history, minimizing download size. SwiftPM added [support for package registries](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-package-manager/blob/main/Documentation/PackageRegistry/PackageRegistryUsage.md) in Swift 5.7, so it’s available for use right now.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Package registries address the main downsides of Git-based dependencies. Package versions are immutable once published. A registry delivers source code in an archive without any Git history, which minimizes the download size. SwiftPM added [support for package registries](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-package-manager/blob/main/Documentation/PackageRegistry/PackageRegistryUsage.md) in Swift 5.7, so it’s available for use right now.
```

Recommend breaking up the second into two distinct sentences.
What do you think of switching "minimizing" to "minimizes the download size" - which I think makes that benefit more explicit.
capitalizing Git in Git-based for consistency.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

> Package registries address the main downsides of git-based dependencies. Package versions are immutable once published, a registry delivers source code in an archive without any git history, minimizing download size. SwiftPM added [support for package registries](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-package-manager/blob/main/Documentation/PackageRegistry/PackageRegistryUsage.md) in Swift 5.7, so it’s available for use right now.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Package registries address the main downsides of git-based dependencies. Package versions are immutable once published, a registry delivers source code in an archive without any Git history, minimizing download size. SwiftPM added [support for package registries](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-package-manager/blob/main/Documentation/PackageRegistry/PackageRegistryUsage.md) in Swift 5.7, so it’s available for use right now.
```

Author: Thanks, fixed!

Fetching packages from a registry has several advantages, but some things don’t change:

* Your source code still lives wherever you choose to host it, be that GitHub, GitLab, or a self-hosted solution.
* Packages deliver source code, not pre-built binaries. You still compile your app’s code on your device.

> * Git-based package resolution continues to work, and apps can mix registry dependencies and git-based ones.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Git-based package resolution continues to work, and apps can mix registry dependencies and Git-based ones.
```

Author: Thanks, fixed!

It’s worth noting that package registries also don’t create a walled garden. SwiftPM can register per-project registries, global registries, scope-specific registries, and anyone can implement a package registry for SwiftPM. There are already package registry implementations from [JFrog Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/integrations/swift-repository/), [AWS CodeArtifact](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codeartifact/latest/ug/using-swift.html), [Cloudsmith](https://cloudsmith.com/product/formats/swift), and a community package cache hosted in the [Tuist registry](https://tuist.dev/en/docs/guides/features/registry).

### Walkthrough: Depending on a package from a registry

> In this follow-along example, we will build a trivial SwiftPM-based command-line tool and switch the Swift Argument Parser dependency from git-based to registry-based. We’ll use the Tuist registry here as a publicly available registry that has archived every package in the [Swift Package Index Package List](https://github.com/SwiftPackageIndex/PackageList/blob/main/packages.json).

Reviewer 2: you'll totally laugh, but I had to struggle to *not* suggest editing out the use of "we" ;-)

Author: Yes, @davelester and I chatted about this too and agreed to leave it. I think it works here.

**Step 1:** Add a registry to SwiftPM:

```shell
swift package-registry set https://tuist.dev/api/registry/swift

> ```

Reviewer: I think this should be after you create a Swift package. When I run this in a dir w/ nothing in it, I get 

```
Error: Could not find Package.swift in this directory or any of its parent directories.
```

Author: This is such a good catch, @thePianoKid. Thanks for catching it. I did these two steps in the opposite order when making the project and then when writing about it thought "it makes sense to add the registry first". I had no idea that'd break it! Thank you for testing it ❤️

**Step 2:** Add a registry to SwiftPM:

```shell
swift package-registry set https://tuist.dev/api/registry/swift
```

*Note: This command sets a default package registry for the current project, not [globally](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-package-manager/blob/main/Documentation/PackageRegistry/PackageRegistryUsage.md#configuring-a-registry).*

> **Step 3:** Switch the dependency. Open the `Package.swift` file and make two changes. Switch the `dependencies` section to use [`package(id:from:)`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/packagedescription/package/dependency/package(id:from:)) instead of [`package(url:from:)`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/packagedescription/package/dependency/package(url:from:)):

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure if this blog post is the place to address it but a question this raises (that I don't actually know the answer to), and perhaps not just for me: what does this mean for transient dependencies?

I.e. say `apple.swift-argument-parser` had dependencies itself in its `Package.swift` that aren't declared as "registry" dependencies. How can you, or can you even, ensure that all of your dependencies are registry-based?

I'd imagine this is being addressed in the spec, so maybe it's worth a sentence and a link?

Reviewer 4: Perhaps this comment gives the answer? https://github.com/SwiftPackageIndex/SwiftPackageIndex-Server/pull/4134#issuecomment-5284367966
Though https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-package-manager/issues/9953 is also relevant, if you mean that you want to ensure that no dependency is resolved from github.com

Most language ecosystems have a registry. JavaScript has [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/), Rust has [crates.io](https://crates.io/), Ruby has [RubyGems](https://rubygems.org/), and Python has [PyPI](https://pypi.org/).

### Depending on a Git-based package

You will probably be familiar with how that appears in a `Package.swift` file:

```swift
dependencies: [
    .package(url: "https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-testing.git", from: "6.3.2")
]
```

During package resolution, SwiftPM clones Git-based dependencies from their source repository and checks out a matching tag. It then supplies the source code to the compiler, ready to build your app. This is simple and requires no extra infrastructure, but there are inherent disadvantages. Git checkouts can be slow and transfer more data than is needed. Git tags are also mutable, and while SwiftPM uses [Trust on First Use](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trust_on_first_use) (TOFU) checks that help mitigate that problem, TOFU only catches mutations that happen after first package resolution.

### Depending on a registry-based package

> Here’s the same dependency import from a registry:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Here’s the same dependency, declared using a registry:
```

Author: Thanks! Fixed.

```swift
dependencies: [
    .package(id: "swiftlang.swift-testing", from: "6.3.2")
]
```

Package registries address the main downsides of Git-based dependencies. Package versions are immutable once published. A registry delivers source code in an archive without any Git history, which minimizes the download size. SwiftPM added [support for package registries](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-package-manager/blob/main/Documentation/PackageRegistry/PackageRegistryUsage.md) in Swift 5.7, so it’s available for use right now.

Fetching packages from a registry has several advantages, but some things don’t change:

* Your source code still lives wherever you choose to host it, be that GitHub, GitLab, or a self-hosted solution.
* Packages deliver source code, not pre-built binaries. You still compile your app’s code on your device.
* Git-based package resolution continues to work, and apps can mix registry dependencies and Git-based ones.

> It’s worth noting that package registries also don’t create a walled garden. SwiftPM can register per-project registries, global registries, scope-specific registries, and anyone can implement a package registry for SwiftPM. There are already package registry implementations from [JFrog Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/integrations/swift-repository/), [AWS CodeArtifact](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codeartifact/latest/ug/using-swift.html), [Cloudsmith](https://cloudsmith.com/product/formats/swift), and a community package cache hosted in the [Tuist registry](https://tuist.dev/en/docs/guides/features/registry).

Reviewer 4: I'm not suggesting this is meant to be a comprehensive list, but Sonatype Nexus also supports SPM registries since earlier this year: https://help.sonatype.com/en/swift-repositories.html

Author: Thanks! I added them.

*Note: This command sets a default package registry for the current project, not [globally](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-package-manager/blob/main/Documentation/PackageRegistry/PackageRegistryUsage.md#configuring-a-registry).*

**Step 3:** Switch the dependency. Open the `Package.swift` file and make two changes. Switch the `dependencies` section to use [`package(id:from:)`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/packagedescription/package/dependency/package(id:from:)) instead of [`package(url:from:)`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/packagedescription/package/dependency/package(url:from:)):

```swift
dependencies: [
    .package(id: "apple.swift-argument-parser", from: "1.2.0")
]
```

Then switch the dependency’s reference in the `executableTarget`:

```swift
.executableTarget(
    name: "TestPackage",
    dependencies: [
      .product(name: "ArgumentParser", package: "apple.swift-argument-parser")
    ]
)
```

**Step 4:** Run the tool:

```shell
swift run
```

You’ll see SwiftPM resolve the package dependency using the registry, build the tool, and output “Hello, world!”. Congratulations, you just used a package registry!

### Why build a package registry?

> Given that you just used a community package registry, you might wonder why we are building a new one. The Tuist registry is a valuable resource for the community as a read-only cache implemented on a registry, and we think there's more value to be had with a full implementation. The key difference is that a fully implemented registry allows packages to be published from SwiftPM using `swift package publish`. It's much more than that, though, involving thinking about developer identity, supply chain security, package scope ownership, release management, and more.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Given that you just used a community package registry, you might wonder why we are building a new one. The Tuist registry is a valuable resource for the community as a read-only cache implemented as a registry, and we think there's more value in a full implementation. The key difference is that a fully implemented registry allows packages to be published from SwiftPM using `swift package publish`. It's much more than that, though. A full registry involves thinking about developer identity, supply chain security, package scope ownership, release management, and more.
```

Reviewer 5: A few changes here:
 * re: on -> as, I believe this revision is correct, but will defer to the team.
 * two additional changes are stylistic / simplification but OK as-is!

Author: Fixed, thanks!
